Perhaps, the simplest way of
doing relation extraction
is using hand-built patterns.
Let's look at the intuition.
Here's a sentence.
Agar is a substance prepared
from a mixture of red algae,
such as Gelidium, for
laboratory or industrial use.
Perhaps you, like me, I didn't know
what the word Gelidium meant, but
I can learn what it means
from this sentence.
And the way we know is
that we see this phrase,
red algae, such as Gelidium, so that tells
us that Gelidium is a kind of red algae.
And this intuition from an early
paper by Marti Hearst suggested that
there's in fact a lot of patterns
that can be used to suggest that two
entities are in this IS-A or
hyponym relation.
So, for example, knowing if I
saw red algae such as Gelidium,
that tells us that Gelidium
is a kind of red algae.
So, x is a kind of y.
I might see other patterns like
Gelidium or other red algae, or
Gelidium and other red algae, or
red algae including Gelidium.
In each case, I have A textual
pattern holding between two entities.
That's a strong cue that what I
have here is a particular relation
between the two entities.
And Hearst showed that these kind of
patterns were able to learn the IS-A
relation between new terms,
such as Bambara ndang and
bow lute, or learning about author names,
or learning country names and so
on, that could be added to a database.
Now, the same kind of intuition about
using handwritten rules to learn relations
can be used for the richer relations
that we've been looking at,
richer than just IS-A or hyponym.
And the intuition for learning these
more richer rules is that these
relations often hold
between specific entities.
So, the located-in relation often holds
between an organization and a location,
where the founded relation holds
between a person and an organization.
So, in addition to just coming up with
clever string patterns that might indicate
a relation, we can also use facts about
the actual entities that are involved,
and that will help us learn which
kind of relations we might have.
In other words, we're going to
start with the entity tags and
that's going to help us
do relation extraction.
Now, many of these aren't quite enough and
to see this,
let's look at a couple of examples.
Imagine I have an entity drug and
an entity disease.
What kind of relations can
hold between those entities?
Well, a lot.
A drug could cure a disease.
It could prevent a disease.
It could even cause a disease.
And that's true for any kinds of entities
between a person and an organization.
The person could be the founder
of the organization.
They could be an investor
in the organization,
a member of the organization,
an employee of the organization.
They could be the president
of the organization, so
any kind of relation may
hold between these entities.
Although, there are constraints, so the
person can't cure, can't be the cure, or
the disease cause, or
other kinds of things.
There are constraints from
the named entities, but
lots of other relations
meet those constraints.
And so, we're going to combine these
two intuitions using a pattern and
using the name entities.
So, we can combine these two intuitions,
use of a named entity and
use of specific patterns,
to extract richer relations.
Consider the question, who holds
what office in what organization?
So, we'd like to extract from
a sentence like George Marshall,
Secretary of State of the United States
that a person, George Marshall
played the role or had the office of
Secretary of State in an organization,
the United States government.
And so, we have an entity person, an
entity position, an entity organization.
And here's a pattern, person, comma,
position of organization that might
extract from a sentence like this,
the position of relation between
a person and an organization.
And we might need to have another pattern
for sentences of a different form.
So, here we have person, Truman
appointed Marshall Secretary of State.
So, we might have person appointed or some
other word like named or chose, and so
on, person, position, and we might have
an optional preposition in between.
So, Truman appointed Marshall as Secretary
of State would be an option there, or
just Truman appointed
Marshall Secretary of State.
So, again, a combination of our
patterns with maybe a list of possible
words we might get from a thesaurus or
some kind of thing, and
the named entities of the entities.
Or finally, another pattern, George
Marshall was named US Secretary of State,
so again person, maybe a form of the verb
to be, and optionally, followed by,
again, one of these named or appointed
words, and maybe an optional preposition,
and then, the organization and
the position.
So, by combining the named entity types
with the words or perhaps parts of speech
in between, we can create patterns
that extract particular relations.
Now, an advantage of the pattern
extraction algorithm for
doing a relation extraction is that these
human patterns tend to be high-precision.
If you look at a particular domain and
you write rules, and the rules are usually
pretty high-precision, and they can be
tailored to these very specific domains.
If you have a particular relation
extraction task when you write rules,
they can get this high-precision.
The minuses are that human
patterns tend to be low-recall.
Often, you don't think of a particular
way somebody might have thought to word
a certain sentence in free text
that expresses a relation.
And it's also a lot of work to do this,
especially if you have a lot of relations.
You're going to have to come up with very
specific patterns for each relation and
for each domain in this relation.
And it'd be nice to also get
a higher accuracy than you can get
from these relations.
So, while hand-built patterns
are a useful method for
relation extraction,
we're going to look at other methods like,
supervised and
unsupervised methods as well.
So, handwritten rules with patterns and
other kinds of words,
and parts of speech in between
are a good way to extract relations.
They have some problems of accuracy and
of generalizing to new domains.
And so, we're going to also introduce
other methods of doing relation
extraction like supervised and
unsupervised learning.